So this is our task.
So right now, the first few TODO's in this
document are things you already know how
to do, using some of the magic spells that
we have learned so far in the course.
So the first three TODO's,
TODO's one, two and three,
are asking you to do things that
we already have the skills for.
We're gonna declare some variables and
point those at certain
elements in the HTML document.
We're going to create an object,
so I think it's fact singular,
sorry, to represent one fact that
you've learned about JavaScript,
similar to 1 plus 1 equals 2,
triple equals 2, I should say.
And then we're going to manipulate
the page to display our fact.
So let's go to our code.
So we have these TODO 1, 2, and 3.
This is what we're going to fill in.
And in order to do that,
we're gonna need to draw on all
the skills that we've been using, and
we're gonna need to look up at this HTML
and see what we're working with here.
So we have some divs,
they have some IDs on them,
they represent different
parts of the page.
So for example, we want to declare some
kind of fact, and it's gonna be up to you.
You're gonna choose something that you
learned about JavaScript that has a true
or false answer.
And we're gonna put it in
this part of the page, okay?
So let us take a moment.
We're gonna work through those TODOs 1,
2 and 3, to stop after TODO 3.
And then we'll review together.
There are a few different ways that we
can accomplish these goals as usual.
There's lots of different options for
doing the same thing in JavaScript.
But let's walk through and
look at some possible solutions here.
So first of all, in TODO 1 we're gonna
declare and assign a bunch of variables.
Now, these variables correspond
to elements on the page
that we might maybe manipulate or
do some certain things to,
but if we look at what these
elements represent from the one
that we just saw,
none of them are gonna totally change.
So what should I be using
to declare these variables?
Let or Const?
>> Const.
>> Const, cuz I don't really
already have a good reason not to.
So, let's start with statement.
Who would like to walk me
through their solution for
assigning the variable statement?
Yeah, Chat.
>> Let statement equal
document.getElementById(statement).
>> Beautiful, so
we have a div up here with ID statement,
and that is the one that
corresponds to this rounded
box where the true or
false fact is gonna go.
And we are selecting that from our
document using the method getElementById,
and passing in the name
of the ID Statement.
Lovely, thank you, Chat.
Okay, and we could have used let,
but in this case,
let just default to const until
we have a good reason not to.
Okay, how about option buttons?
Now, this is going to be plural.
So I kind of want multiple
things to be captured here.
Who can walk me through?
Yeah, Chat, again.
>> document.querSelectorAll("button").
>> Okay, so this is one thing we could
do is we could get all of the button
elements on the page.
Now, in this case, in our HTML,
we only have two button elements and
they are both inside of this options div.
But I have a question for you, what if
there were another button out here,
Would this be part of my option
buttons as written here?
>> Yeah.
>> Query selector all is
going to select all of
the elements that match
a certain selector.
In this case, that selector is
just looking for a button tag.
So in this case, it's equivalent.
So in this case, it totally works.
But be careful because in this TODO,
I wrote that I want all of the elements
within the options div, and
in this case, that is the same.
But in another example,
it might give you something different.
So totally valid solution.
Did anyone have a different solution
to this one option buttons?
Yeah?
>> So the same thing but
document query selector pound options.
>> Okay, so here we're going to, let's
say use our query selector, selector.
So another nice thing about IDE is that
they offer auto completion sometimes,
same as the browser console div.
querySelector, and then you said?
>> Pound options.
>> Pound options, to select for
the ID options, okay?
So if I were to write this,
just write as this,
what would I get back from querySelector?
Let me ask maybe,
how many elements would I get back?
>> Just the one.
>> So I'm hearing a couple,
maybe three, maybe one.
So in this case, if I were to do it
just like this, let's go find out.
Let's open our, this is our page so far.
Let's try document querySelector options,
this gives me the div options.
Now that might be useful, hat might
be something I'd wanna call options,
let's say.
But in this case, I want all of
the elements within that div.
So how can I get those?
>> .children?
>> .children for example,
so let's try that now.
Now if I were to try this, Now I have
a collection of two buttons, okay?
And the one that we had before
was querySelectorAll button.
That also, it's a slightly different
type of objects and node list but
it still gives me those buttons.
And there's a couple of
other things we could do.
We could do like a querySelector for
let's say,
buttons within the options div,
for example.
So there's a lot of different options
here, [LAUGH] lot of options for
getting our options.
But this works just great.
Okay, how about this last one,
the explanation?
Sort of similar to what we did before.
We could do, this time we wanna
get the explanation div here which
right now has nothing in it, but
in our finished product is going to
have the kind of the text explaining
why the answer is what it is.
So we're gonna need to grab that, and
it handily has a little ID on it.
So we could use either of these methods
basically that we've done so far.
We could use getElementById,
and then the name of the ID.
Or we could use querySelector and
then a hash selector, yeah?
So let's just try let's, for
consistency sake, we'll do the same
way we did this the statement,
and its ID is explanation, cool?
Okay, how we feel about TODO 1, review?
Complete?
Excellent, now,
make sure as you're working in
your file that you remember
to save frequently [LAUGH].
Cuz you never know when your
computer is gonna crash and
you lose a whole bunch of work that
you've been working on for hours.
Not that I speak out of experience.
So let us save it so far.
And I also wanna ask, okay, so
what I was showing you before was this
was actually the page from my site.
And so if I refresh this page, and
I asked for, let's say statement,
Did I already say that?
Okay, it's remembering what I did before.
What I'm showing you here right
now is my version of this project.
What you all wanna be doing is opening
your own version of the project
that you're editing currently
in your local file.
So you can do that by
going to your browser and
it has an option to not just load
a webpage from a URL on the internet, but
to load a file locally from your computer.
So you can open your quiz.HTML
file in there, yeah?
And that's how we're going to
iterate on kind of seeing what
progress we've made so far.
So if I inspect this now,
I should hopefully find,
let me, Move this over, there we go.
I should hopefully find that
now inside of my script tag,
I have not only the TODOs, but
the stuff that I wrote, right?
Like const statement equals
document.getElementById.
So this shows that I am actually loading
the local file that I just edited
in my editor, okay?
So this is what we're gonna do is
we're gonna work kind of iteratively,
which is a word that's
gonna come up a lot today.
We're going to make
some edits to our file.
We're going to refresh our
local file in the browser, and
see the updated changes that we made.